moves. For Dennett, the simplicity and predictive power of this model depends on the fact that the model captures a real pattern in the target system (that is, the computer).

Nevertheless, two models can agree in their simplicity and predictive power, yet differ in their ontology (that is, the things that they propose). Neither complexity nor predictive accuracy could distinguish between such models. One might wish to say that such models are only superficially different and that they offer fundamentally consistent descriptions of underlying physical processes. Unfortunately, this position does not bear much scrutiny.

Following Pylyshyn [1984], consider the fact that there are often several different algorithms that solve the same problem, including a host of algorithms for sorting lists. Further, these algorithms often do not differ significantly in program length [Cormen et al. 2009]. Computer scientists have even developed conventions for representing the algorithmic differences between programs. This ‘pseudocode' is not a programming language, but rather an informal set of conventions for describing algorithms that abstracts away from the finer points of implementation [ibid.: 3]. It is hard to see how Dennett's criterion could capture this element of scientific practice without addressing both (i) what function a program computes and (ii) how it computes that function via a series of computational steps. For analogous reasons, it seems reasonable to ask that real patterns address both chess playing behaviour and the cognitive states and processes proposed to explain such behaviour.

## Really Real Patterns

### Desiderata for a Realist Theory

Just as Dennett aims to distinguish ‘real' patterns from ‘bogus' patterns, my aim is to provide a criterion for determining when (and to what degree) a proposed pattern is really instantiated by a physical system [1991: 29]. As discussed above, this criterion should consider both (i) the power of a pattern to predict a particular phenomenon and (ii) what it entails about how the target system gives rise to that phenomenon. Here I follow Weisberg [2016] in distinguishing between dynamical fidelity criteria and representational fidelity criteria. According to him, ‘Dynamical fidelity criteria tell us how close the output of the model—the predictions it makes about the values of dependent variables given some independent variables—must be to the output of the real-world phenomenon' [ibid.: 267]. Representational fidelity criteria tell us ‘whether the structure of the model maps well onto the target system of interest' [ibid. emphasis mine].

This distinction is warranted in light of scepticism within science about whether predictively successful models comport with reality (see Maddy [1992]). It is also warranted by the fact that one aim of scientists is to capture the structure of their target systems [Godfrey-Smith 2006]. A realist account of pattern instantiation should