Wallace's criterion does not require us to construct a mapping that is actually sensitive to (ii). Wallace emphasizes this consequence himself, but regards it as essential to accommodating different standards for model instantiation (such as those at play in the instantiation of computation and economic models, respectively) [ibid.: 56--7]).

To be clear, I entirely agree with Wallace that we may often be satisfied by less restrictive standards of instantiation, but there is no reason to endorse a one-size-fits-all account in order to accommodate these cases. Earlier, I suggested that our mappings should consider the ontology of the instantiating system and the ontology of the instantiated model. This suggestion can be understood as the maximally realist approach to assessing instantiation in any given case. Of course, nothing requires that we insist on the most realist approach irrespective of context. This stringent realism can be relaxed by allowing our mappings to consider abstract features of the model's ontology.

Consider a model of population ecology. Such a model might treat a population as a collection of individuals, but, like an economic model, there might be no simple correspondence between individuals in the target environment and individuals in the model. With that said, the high-level variable total population depends on the individuals present in the population, but it is also invariant with respect to their individual fates. If one animal dies and another is born, the population remains the same. If we are interested in how faithfully a model represents changes in an animal population over time, we might consider the simplicity of a mapping between states of the target environment and total population values in the model. If our mapping is simple and counterfactual-supporting, then we might say that the target environment realizes the model at a high level (the population level). We might also say that the model bears a high-level similarity to the target environment. On the contrary, if our mapping requires a large number of caveats and qualifications, we would doubt that the model bears even a high-level similarity to the target environment.

Of course, adopting a paradigmatically realist approach to assessing instantiation does not settle the question of whether an instantiation is genuine. It is merely the decision to evaluate the instantiation of a model at the ground level (that is, in terms of the things that figure directly in its ontology and dynamics). Higher-level approaches are certainly permitted, but, even in the best case of mapping simplicity and counterfactual reliability, we cannot say that the low-level postulates of the model have been vindicated; only the high-level postulates have been. The level at which we construct our mapping is the level at which the simplicity criterion assesses similarity. The higher this level, the more we are concerned with high-level similarity. The lower this level, the more we are concerned with low-level similarity and (ultimately) the details of implementation. As such, if we are primarily interested in high-level similarity (as in the cases discussed above), a high-level approach is entirely justified.

## Conclusion

In this paper, I have defended a novel criterion for the reality of patterns. This criterion is inspired by real patterns but resolves several serious concerns about the original's