is to tell us which physical states belong to which computational states. In other words, there will be sets of physical states that belong to a single computational state. As with the baseball cards, it will be easier to say which physical states belong to a particular computational state if there is a concise set of physical features that those states share and that other physical states lack.

By ‘physically similar states,' I do not mean ‘states that are merely similar'; I mean ‘states that exhibit no concise set of features that distinguish them from each other'. For example, suppose that I have 100 copies of a particular baseball card, and a collector offers to buy whichever 50 of the cards are in the best condition. I deliver this set of cards, but she promptly asks me to describe my selection criteria. If half of the cards had obvious creases, my answer could be quite brief. However, if all of the cards were in very similar condition, I might have to talk about subtle measures of fading, staining, or fraying of the edges. The point is that, when the physical states belonging to different computational states are very similar, additional features must be introduced or else specified with greater precision in order to distinguish them from one another.

This suggests that mapping simplicity depends on a kind of structural similarity between the instantiating system and instantiated model (in this case, a physical system and model of computation, respectively). In particular, it suggests that mappings will be simpler when the physical states corresponding to each computational state are (i) similar to each other and (ii) different from the physical states corresponding to other computational states. In other words, mappings will be simpler when distinctions drawn by the model reflect patterns of similarity and difference present in the instantiating system.

Fortunately, we can easily generalize the simplicity criterion for computer instantiation to the instantiation of dynamical systems models tout court. We can formalize this generalized criterion as follows: Let M be a dynamical model and P be a physical system. For P to instantiate M, there must be some function, I, that maps the phase space of P to the phase space of M. (Mapping Constraint)For any state of M, m_{i}, at any time, t_{i}, if the evolution rule of M requires that m_{i} evolve to m_{j} at time t_{j}, then if P is in some state p_{i} at t_{i} such that I(p_{i}) = m_{i}, then P will evolve to some state p_{j} at t_{j} such that I(p_{j}) = m_{j}. (Counterfactual Constraint)Let Ī be the simplest function that satisfies (1) and (2) for P and M. P instantiates M well to the extent that Ī is simple. The simplicity of Ī is construed as the Kolmogorov complexity of Ī or K(Ī). (Simplicity Criterion)

In other words, for a physical system to instantiate a particular explanatory model, there must be a relatively simple mapping from states of the physical system to states of the model under which the system can be understood to reliably obey the evolution rule of the model. As we will see, it will be necessary to qualify and elaborate this criterion in several ways, but this formulation captures its central proposal.

To see how this criterion addresses a weakness of Dennett's view, consider the aim laid out in section 2—to distinguish between explanatory models that invoke different ways of computing the same function. Consider two finite-state machines that compute the same function over binary strings (such as identifying strings that