model) and (ii) how those states evolve over time (its evolution rule). In the philosophical literature on computer instantiation, one strategy has been to evaluate computer instantiation in terms of a counterfactual-supporting mapping between states of a physical system and states of an abstract machine [Chalmers 1996]. That is, a physical system instantiates a particular abstract machine iff states of the system can be mapped to states of the machine such that the system under this mapping obeys the machine's transition function. Unfortunately, this criterion permits a flood of spurious mappings that threaten to trivialize physical computation. Taking a cue from politics, these mappings are often described as ‘gerrymandered,' since they ascribe implausible computations to a system without regard for the features of its physical states. They map very different physical states to the same computational state or map very similar physical states to different computational states.

To remedy this problem, I have proposed [2019] a simplicity constraint on mappings, and I motivated this constraint by appealing to program length as a measure of similarity. Earlier, we considered the shortest program for computing a function that accepts one string and returns another and vice versa. This two-way program is appropriate, since similarity is a symmetric relation. Instantiation, however, is an asymmetric relation. Fortunately, we can also consider the length of the shortest one-way program (that is, the program that simply accepts one string and returns another). These program lengths (or conditional Kolmogorov complexities) are closely related to algorithmic information distance and tell us about a specific aspect of similarity between strings [Bennett et al. 1998]. In particular, they tell us how much additional information is required to produce one string, given free access to another.

While conditional Kolmogorov complexity considers the length of the shortest program that accepts one string and returns another, we can just as easily consider the length of the shortest program that accepts physical states and returns computational states. This measure—analogous but not identical to conditional Kolmogorov complexity—tells us how much information is required to determine the computational state of a system on the basis of its physical state. I argue that requiring a short program precludes gerrymandering and secures the related (and highly plausible) aim of ensuring that our mapping of physical states to computational states reflects structural features of the physical system. My original argument [ibid.] focused more on naturalness than on similarity, and so the connection between compressibility and similarity was not entirely clear. For that reason, I will reconstruct and clarify that argument here, focusing on similarity.

The key point (for present purposes) is that mapping complexity increases whenever (i) physically different states must be treated as a single computational state or (ii) physically similar states must be treated as distinct computational states. By ‘physically different states', I do not mean ‘states that are merely dissimilar', but instead ‘states that share no concise set of features that distinguish them from other states'. For example, if I randomly sort baseball cards into two stacks, there will probably be no feature that the cards in one stack share and the cards in the other stack lack. In contrast, suppose that I sort the cards into two piles, according to whether the cards were issued before or after 1960. In the former case, it would be difficult to offer a brief description of which cards were in which pile. In the latter case, a brief description (such as the one that I gave just now) would be easy to construct. Given this, recall that what a mapping between physical and computational states must do