references.md, before:

Acemoglu, Daron, and James A. Robinson. 2012. *Why Nations Fail: The Origins of Power, Prosperity, and Poverty*. New York: Crown Business. ISBN 978-0307719225.

Ayvazov, Mahammad. 2025. "Toward a Phase Epistemology: Coherence, Response and the Vector of Mutual Uncertainty." *SSRN Electronic Journal*. https://doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5250197.

Baggio, Guido, and Andrea Parravicini. 2019. "Introduction to Pragmatism and Theories of Emergence." *European Journal of Pragmatism and American Philosophy* XI-2. https://doi.org/10.4000/ejpap.1611.

Baysan, Umut. 2025. "Emergent Moral Non-naturalism." *Philosophy and Phenomenological Research* 110(1): 1–20. https://doi.org/10.1111/phpr.70057.

Bennett-Hunter, Guy. 2015. "Emergence, Emergentism and Pragmatism." *Theology and Science* 13(3): 337–57. https://doi.org/10.1080/14746700.2015.1053760.

Bennett-Hunter, Guy. 2015. *Ineffability and Religious Experience*. London: Routledge (originally Pickering & Chatto). ISBN 978-1848934719.

Blackburn, Simon. 1993. *Essays in Quasi-Realism*. New York: Oxford University Press. ISBN 978-0195082241.

Berlin, Brent, and Paul Kay. 1969. *Basic Color Terms: Their Universality and Evolution*. Berkeley: University of California Press. ISBN 978-1575861623

BonJour, Laurence. 1985. *The Structure of Empirical Knowledge*. Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press. ISBN 978-0674843813.

Boyd, Richard. 1988. "How to Be a Moral Realist." In *Essays on Moral Realism*, edited by Geoffrey Sayre-McCord, 181–228. Ithaca, NY: Cornell University Press.

Bradie, Michael. 1986. "Assessing Evolutionary Epistemology." *Biology & Philosophy* 1(4): 401–59. https://doi.org/10.1007/BF00140962.

Brandom, Robert B. 1994. *Making It Explicit: Reasoning, Representing, and Discursive Commitment*. Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press. ISBN 978-0674543195.

Buchanan, Allen, and Russell Powell. 2018. *The Evolution of Moral Progress: A Biocultural Theory*. New York: Oxford University Press. ISBN 978-0190868413.

Campbell, Donald T. 1974. "Evolutionary Epistemology." In *The Philosophy of Karl R. Popper*, edited by Paul A. Schilpp, 413–63. La Salle, IL: Open Court.

Carlson, Matthew. 2015. "Logic and the Structure of the Web of Belief." *Journal for the History of Analytical Philosophy* 3(5): 1–27. https://doi.org/10.15173/jhap.v3i5.28.

Cartwright, Nancy. 1999. *The Dappled World: A Study of the Boundaries of Science*. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press. ISBN 978-0521644112.

Christensen, David. 2007. "Epistemology of Disagreement: The Good News." *Philosophical Review* 116(2): 187–217. https://doi.org/10.1215/00318108-2006-035.

Dewey, John. 1929. *The Quest for Certainty: A Study of the Relation of Knowledge and Action*. New York: Minton, Balch & Company. https://doi.org/10.2307/2014669

Dewey, John. 1938. *Logic: The Theory of Inquiry*. New York: Henry Holt and Company. ISBN 978-1406731804.

El-Hani, Charbel Niño, and Sami Pihlström. 2002. "Emergence Theories and Pragmatic Realism." *Essays in Philosophy* 3(2): article 3. https://doi.org/10.5840/eip2002325.

Fricker, Elizabeth. 2007. *The Epistemology of Testimony*. Oxford: Oxford University Press. ISBN 978-0199276011.

Gadamer, Hans-Georg. 1975. *Truth and Method*. Translated by Joel Weinsheimer and Donald G. Marshall. New York: Continuum (originally Seabury Press; 2nd revised ed.). ISBN 978-0826400161.

Gaifman, Haim, and Marc Snir. 1982. "Probabilities over rich languages, testing and randomness." *Journal of Symbolic Logic* 47(3): 495-548. https://doi.org/10.2307/2273587.

Gil Martín, Francisco Javier, and Jesús Vega Encabo. 2008. "Truth and Moral Objectivity: Procedural Realism in Putnam's Pragmatism." *Theoria: An International Journal for Theory, History and Foundations of Science* 23(3): 343-356.

Glenn, Patrick. Forthcoming. "The Architecture of Failure: How Systemic Brittleness Drives Convergent Coherence to Forge Objective Truth."

Goldman, Alvin I. 1979. "What Is Justified Belief?" In *Justification and Knowledge: New Studies in Epistemology*, edited by George S. Pappas, 1–23. Dordrecht: D. Reidel. https://doi.org/10.1007/978-94-009-9493-5_1.

Goldman, Alvin I. 1999. *Knowledge in a Social World*. Oxford: Oxford University Press. ISBN 978-0198238201.

Goodman, Nelson. 1983. *Fact, Fiction, and Forecast*. 4th ed. Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press (originally 1954). ISBN 978-0674290716.

Haack, Susan. 1993. *Evidence and Inquiry: Towards Reconstruction in Epistemology*. Oxford: Blackwell. ISBN 978-0631196792.

Harding, Sandra. 1991. *Whose Science? Whose Knowledge? Thinking from Women's Lives*. Ithaca, NY: Cornell University Press. ISBN 978-0801497469.

Hartmann, Stephan, and Borut Trpin. 2023. "Conjunctive Explanations: A Coherentist Appraisal." In *Conjunctive Explanations: The Nature, Epistemology, and Psychology of Explanatory Multiplicity*, edited by Jonah N. Schupbach and David H. Glass, 111–129. Cham: Springer.

Henrich, Joseph. 2015. *The Secret of Our Success: How Culture Is Driving Human Evolution, Domesticating Our Species, and Making Us Smarter*. Princeton, NJ: Princeton University Press. ISBN 978-0691178431.

Hodge, A. Trevor. 1992. *Roman Aqueducts & Water Supply*. London: Duckworth. ISBN 978-0715631713.

Holling, C. S. 1973. "Resilience and Stability of Ecological Systems." *Annual Review of Ecology and Systematics* 4: 1–23. https://doi.org/10.1146/annurev.es.04.110173.000245.

Hull, David L. 1988. *Science as a Process: An Evolutionary Account of the Social and Conceptual Development of Science*. Chicago: University of Chicago Press. ISBN 978-0226360508.

Kelly, Thomas. 2005. "The Epistemic Significance of Disagreement." In *Oxford Studies in Epistemology*, vol. 1, edited by Tamar Szabó Gendler and John Hawthorne, 167–96. Oxford: Oxford University Press.

Kim, Jaegwon. 1988. "What Is 'Naturalized Epistemology'?" *Philosophical Perspectives* 2: 381–405. https://doi.org/10.2307/2214082.

Kitcher, Philip. 1993. *The Advancement of Science: Science without Legend, Objectivity without Illusions*. New York: Oxford University Press. ISBN 978-0195046281.

Kornblith, Hilary. 2002. *Knowledge and Its Place in Nature*. Oxford: Clarendon Press. ISBN 978-0199246311.

Kuhn, Thomas S. 1996. *The Structure of Scientific Revolutions*. 3rd ed. Chicago: University of Chicago Press (originally 1962). ISBN 978-0226458083.

Kvanvig, Jonathan L. 2012. "Coherentism and Justified Inconsistent Beliefs: A Solution." *Southern Journal of Philosophy* 50(1): 21–41. https://doi.org/10.1111/j.2041-6962.2011.00090.x.

Ladyman, James, and Don Ross. 2007. *Every Thing Must Go: Metaphysics Naturalized*. Oxford: Oxford University Press. ISBN 978-0199276196.

Lakatos, Imre. 1970. "Falsification and the Methodology of Scientific Research Programmes." In *Criticism and the Growth of Knowledge*, edited by Imre Lakatos and Alan Musgrave, 91–196. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.

Laudan, Larry. 1977. *Progress and Its Problems: Towards a Theory of Scientific Growth*. Berkeley: University of California Press. ISBN 978-0520037212.

Lehrer, Keith. 1990. *Theory of Knowledge*. Boulder, CO: Westview Press. ISBN 978-0415054072.

Li, Y., et al. 2025. "Pragmatics in the Era of Large Language Models: A Survey on Datasets, Evaluation, Opportunities and Challenges." arXiv preprint arXiv:2502.12378.

Longino, Helen E. 2002. *The Fate of Knowledge*. Princeton, NJ: Princeton University Press. ISBN 978-0691088761.

Lugones, María. 2003. *Pilgrimages/Peregrinajes: Theorizing Coalition against Multiple Oppressions*. Lanham, MD: Rowman & Littlefield. ISBN 978-0742514591.

Mallapaty, Smriti. 2020. "AI models fail to capture the complexity of human language." *Nature* 588: 24. https://doi.org/10.1038/d41586-024-00824-z.

Lynch, Michael P. 2009. *Truth as One and Many*. Oxford: Clarendon Press. ISBN 978-0199218738.

Meadows, Donella H. 2008. *Thinking in Systems: A Primer*. Edited by Diana Wright. White River Junction, VT: Chelsea Green Publishing. ISBN 978-1603580557.

Mesoudi, Alex. 2011. *Cultural Evolution: How Darwinian Theory Can Explain Human Culture and Synthesize the Social Sciences*. Chicago: University of Chicago Press. ISBN 978-0226520445.

MLPerf Association. 2023. "MLPerf Training Results." https://mlcommons.org/benchmarks/training/.

Ingthorsson, Rögnvaldur D. 2013. "Properties: Qualities, Powers, or Both?" *Dialectica* 67, no. 1: 55–80. https://doi.org/10.1111/1746-8361.12011.

Sinclair, Robert. 2007. "Quine's Naturalized Epistemology and the Third Dogma of Empiricism." *Southern Journal of Philosophy* 45, no. 3: 455–472. https://doi.org/10.1111/j.2041-6962.2007.tb00060.x.

Newman, Mark. 2010. *Networks: An Introduction*. Oxford: Oxford University Press. ISBN 978-0199206650.

Olsson, Erik J. 2005. *Against Coherence: Truth, Probability, and Justification*. Oxford: Oxford University Press. ISBN 978-0199279999.

Ostrom, Elinor. 1990. *Governing the Commons: The Evolution of Institutions for Collective Action*. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press. ISBN 978-0521405997.

Patterson, Orlando. 1982. *Slavery and Social Death: A Comparative Study*. Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press. ISBN 978-0674986909.

Peirce, Charles S. 1992. "How to Make Our Ideas Clear." In *The Essential Peirce: Selected Philosophical Writings*, vol. 1 (1867–1893), edited by Nathan Houser and Christian Kloesel, 124–41. Bloomington: Indiana University Press (originally 1878).

Peter, Fabienne. 2024. "Moral Affordances and the Demands of Fittingness." *Philosophical Psychology* 37(7): 1948–70. https://doi.org/10.1080/09515089.2023.2236120.

Plantinga, Alvin. 1993. *Warrant and Proper Function*. New York: Oxford University Press. ISBN 978-0195078640.

Plantinga, Alvin. 2011. *Where the Conflict Really Lies: Science, Religion, and Naturalism*. New York: Oxford University Press. ISBN 978-0199812097.

Popper, Karl. 1959. *The Logic of Scientific Discovery*. London: Hutchinson (originally 1934). ISBN 978-0415278447.

Price, Huw. 1992. "Metaphysical Pluralism." *Journal of Philosophy* 89(8): 387–409. https://doi.org/10.2307/2940741.

Pritchard, Duncan. 2016. "Epistemic Risk." *Journal of Philosophy* 113(11): 550–571. https://doi.org/10.5840/jphil20161131137.

Psillos, Stathis. 1999. *Scientific Realism: How Science Tracks Truth*. London: Routledge. ISBN 978-0415208192.

Putnam, Hilary. 2002. *The Collapse of the Fact/Value Dichotomy and Other Essays*. Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press. ISBN 978-0674013803.

Quine, W. V. O. 1951. "Two Dogmas of Empiricism." *Philosophical Review* 60(1): 20–43. https://doi.org/10.2307/2181906.

Quine, W. V. O. 1960. *Word and Object*. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press. ISBN 978-0262670012.

Railton, Peter. 1986. "Moral Realism." *The Philosophical Review* 95(2): 163–207. https://doi.org/10.2307/2185589.

Rescher, Nicholas. 1996. *Process Metaphysics: An Introduction to Process Philosophy*. Albany: State University of New York Press. ISBN 978-0791428184.

Roda, Weston C., Marie B. Varughese, Donglin Han, and Michael Y. Li. 2020. "Why Is It Difficult to Accurately Predict the COVID-19 Epidemic?" *Infectious Disease Modelling* 5: 271–281. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.idm.2020.03.001.

Rorty, Richard. 1989. *Contingency, Irony, and Solidarity*. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press. ISBN 978-0521367813.

Rosenstock, Sarita, Cailin O'Connor, and Justin Bruner. 2017. "In Epistemic Networks, Is Less Really More?" *Philosophy of Science* 84(2): 234–52. https://doi.org/10.1086/690717.

Rottschaefer, William A. 2012. "Moral Realism and Evolutionary Moral Psychology." In *The Oxford Handbook of Moral Realism*, edited by Paul Bloomfield, 123–45. Oxford: Oxford University Press.

Rottschaefer, William A. 2012. "The Moral Realism of Pragmatic Naturalism." *Analyse & Kritik* 34(1): 141–56. https://doi.org/10.1515/auk-2012-0107.

Russell, Bertrand. 1903. *The Principles of Mathematics*. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press. ISBN 978-1430476030.

Ladyman, James, and Don Ross. 2007. *Every Thing Must Go: Metaphysics Naturalized*. Oxford: Oxford University Press. ISBN 978-0199276196.

Mackie, J. L. 1977. *Ethics: Inventing Right and Wrong*. London: Penguin Books. ISBN 978-0140135589.

Rorty, Richard. 1979. *Philosophy and the Mirror of Nature*. Princeton, NJ: Princeton University Press. ISBN 978-0691020167.

Sevilla, Jaime, Lennart Heim, Anson Ho, Tamay Besiroglu, Marius Hobbhahn, and Pablo Villalobos. 2022. "Compute Trends Across Three Eras of Machine Learning." arXiv preprint arXiv:2202.05924.

Simon, Herbert A. 1972. "Theories of Bounded Rationality." In *Decision and Organization*, edited by C. B. McGuire and Roy Radner, 161–76. Amsterdam: North-Holland Publishing Company.

Sims, Matthew. 2024. "The Principle of Dynamic Holism: Guiding Methodology for Investigating Cognition in Nonneuronal Organisms." *Philosophy of Science* 91(2): 430–48. https://doi.org/10.1017/psa.2023.104.

Snow, John. 1855. *On the Mode of Communication of Cholera*. London: John Churchill.

Staffel, Julia. 2019. "Coherentism and Belief Fixation." In *Reasons, Justification, and Defeat*, edited by Jessica Brown and Mona Simion, 187–208. Oxford: Oxford University Press.

Staffel, Julia. 2019. "Reasons Fundamentalism and Rational Uncertainty: The Externalist Response." *Philosophy and Phenomenological Research* 103(3): 555–73. https://doi.org/10.1111/phpr.12595.

Taleb, Nassim Nicholas. 2012. *Antifragile: Things That Gain from Disorder*. New York: Random House. ISBN 978-1400067824.

Tauriainen, Teemu. 2017. "Quine on Truth." *Philosophical Forum* 48(4): 397–416. https://doi.org/10.1111/phil.12170.

Tauriainen, Teemu. 2017. "Quine's Naturalistic Conception of Truth." Master's thesis, University of Jyväskylä.

Turchin, Peter. 2003. *Historical Dynamics: Why States Rise and Fall*. Princeton, NJ: Princeton University Press. ISBN 978-0691116693.

Fogel, Robert William, and Stanley L. Engerman. 1974. *Time on the Cross: The Economics of American Negro Slavery*. Boston: Little, Brown and Company. ISBN 978-0393312188.

Worrall, John. 1989. "Structural Realism: The Best of Both Worlds?" *Dialectica* 43(1–2): 99–124. https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1746-8361.1989.tb00933.x.

Wright, Sewall. 1932. "The Roles of Mutation, Inbreeding, Crossbreeding and Selection in Evolution." *Proceedings of the Sixth International Congress of Genetics* 1: 356–66.

Zagzebski, Linda Trinkaus. 1996. *Virtues of the Mind: An Inquiry into the Nature of Virtue and the Ethical Foundations of Knowledge*. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press. ISBN 978-0521570602. https://doi.org/10.1017/CBO9780511582233.

Zollman, Kevin J. S. 2013. "Network Epistemology: Communication in Epistemic Communities." *Philosophy Compass* 8(1): 15–27. https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1747-9991.2012.00534.x.

World Bank. 2012. *World Development Report 2012: Gender Equality and Development*. Washington, DC: World Bank. ISBN 978-0821388105.

Duflo, Esther. 2012. "Women Empowerment and Economic Development." *Journal of Economic Literature* 50(4): 1051–79. https://doi.org/10.1257/jel.50.4.1051.

Axelrod, Robert. 1984. *The Evolution of Cooperation*. New York: Basic Books. ISBN 978-0465021215.

Bagnoli, Carla, ed. 2013. *Constructivism in Ethics*. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press. ISBN 978-1107019218. https://doi.org/10.1017/CBO9780511676314.

Bennett, Andrew, and Jeffrey T. Checkel, eds. 2014. *Process Tracing: From Metaphor to Analytic Tool*. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press. ISBN 978-1107044524. https://doi.org/10.1017/CBO9780511803123.

Conquest, Robert. 1990. *The Great Terror: A Reassessment*. Oxford: Oxford University Press. ISBN 978-0195055801.

Foot, Philippa. 2001. *Natural Goodness*. Oxford: Clarendon Press. ISBN 978-0198235088. https://doi.org/10.1093/0198235089.001.0001.

Habermas, Jürgen. 1990. *Moral Consciousness and Communicative Action*. Translated by Christian Lenhardt and Shierry Weber Nicholsen. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press. ISBN 978-0262081924.

Harding, Sandra G. 2004. *The Feminist Standpoint Theory Reader*. New York: Routledge. ISBN 978-0415945011.

Joyce, Richard. 2001. *The Myth of Morality*. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press. ISBN 978-0521808064. https://doi.org/10.1017/CBO9780511487101.

Kitcher, Philip. 2011. *The Ethical Project*. Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press. ISBN 978-0674061446.

Korsgaard, Christine M. 1996. *The Sources of Normativity*. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press. ISBN 978-0521559607. https://doi.org/10.1017/CBO9780511554476.

Rawls, John. 1971. *A Theory of Justice*. Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press. ISBN 978-0674880108.

Scott, James C. 1998. *Seeing Like a State: How Certain Schemes to Improve the Human Condition Have Failed*. New Haven, CT: Yale University Press. ISBN 978-0300070163.

Street, Sharon. 2006. "A Darwinian Dilemma for Realist Theories of Value." *Philosophical Studies* 127(1): 109–66. https://doi.org/10.1007/s11098-005-1726-6.

Streumer, Bart. 2025. "Quasi-Realism for Realists." *Philosophers' Imprint* 25(8): 1–17. https://doi.org/10.3998/phimp.4728.

Tainter, Joseph A. 1988. *The Collapse of Complex Societies*. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press. ISBN 978-0521386739.

Commit message:

Correct Simon 1972 hallucination with March 1978 bounded rationality reference

references.md, after:

Acemoglu, Daron, and James A. Robinson. 2012. *Why Nations Fail: The Origins of Power, Prosperity, and Poverty*. New York: Crown Business. ISBN 978-0307719225.

Ayvazov, Mahammad. 2025. "Toward a Phase Epistemology: Coherence, Response and the Vector of Mutual Uncertainty." *SSRN Electronic Journal*. https://doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.5250197.

Baggio, Guido, and Andrea Parravicini. 2019. "Introduction to Pragmatism and Theories of Emergence." *European Journal of Pragmatism and American Philosophy* XI-2. https://doi.org/10.4000/ejpap.1611.

Baysan, Umut. 2025. "Emergent Moral Non-naturalism." *Philosophy and Phenomenological Research* 110(1): 1–20. https://doi.org/10.1111/phpr.70057.

Bennett-Hunter, Guy. 2015. "Emergence, Emergentism and Pragmatism." *Theology and Science* 13(3): 337–57. https://doi.org/10.1080/14746700.2015.1053760.

Bennett-Hunter, Guy. 2015. *Ineffability and Religious Experience*. London: Routledge (originally Pickering & Chatto). ISBN 978-1848934719.

Blackburn, Simon. 1993. *Essays in Quasi-Realism*. New York: Oxford University Press. ISBN 978-0195082241.

Berlin, Brent, and Paul Kay. 1969. *Basic Color Terms: Their Universality and Evolution*. Berkeley: University of California Press. ISBN 978-1575861623

BonJour, Laurence. 1985. *The Structure of Empirical Knowledge*. Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press. ISBN 978-0674843813.

Boyd, Richard. 1988. "How to Be a Moral Realist." In *Essays on Moral Realism*, edited by Geoffrey Sayre-McCord, 181–228. Ithaca, NY: Cornell University Press.

Bradie, Michael. 1986. "Assessing Evolutionary Epistemology." *Biology & Philosophy* 1(4): 401–59. https://doi.org/10.1007/BF00140962.

Brandom, Robert B. 1994. *Making It Explicit: Reasoning, Representing, and Discursive Commitment*. Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press. ISBN 978-0674543195.

Buchanan, Allen, and Russell Powell. 2018. *The Evolution of Moral Progress: A Biocultural Theory*. New York: Oxford University Press. ISBN 978-0190868413.

Campbell, Donald T. 1974. "Evolutionary Epistemology." In *The Philosophy of Karl R. Popper*, edited by Paul A. Schilpp, 413–63. La Salle, IL: Open Court.

Carlson, Matthew. 2015. "Logic and the Structure of the Web of Belief." *Journal for the History of Analytical Philosophy* 3(5): 1–27. https://doi.org/10.15173/jhap.v3i5.28.

Cartwright, Nancy. 1999. *The Dappled World: A Study of the Boundaries of Science*. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press. ISBN 978-0521644112.

Christensen, David. 2007. "Epistemology of Disagreement: The Good News." *Philosophical Review* 116(2): 187–217. https://doi.org/10.1215/00318108-2006-035.

Dewey, John. 1929. *The Quest for Certainty: A Study of the Relation of Knowledge and Action*. New York: Minton, Balch & Company. https://doi.org/10.2307/2014669

Dewey, John. 1938. *Logic: The Theory of Inquiry*. New York: Henry Holt and Company. ISBN 978-1406731804.

El-Hani, Charbel Niño, and Sami Pihlström. 2002. "Emergence Theories and Pragmatic Realism." *Essays in Philosophy* 3(2): article 3. https://doi.org/10.5840/eip2002325.

Fricker, Elizabeth. 2007. *The Epistemology of Testimony*. Oxford: Oxford University Press. ISBN 978-0199276011.

Gadamer, Hans-Georg. 1975. *Truth and Method*. Translated by Joel Weinsheimer and Donald G. Marshall. New York: Continuum (originally Seabury Press; 2nd revised ed.). ISBN 978-0826400161.

Gaifman, Haim, and Marc Snir. 1982. "Probabilities over rich languages, testing and randomness." *Journal of Symbolic Logic* 47(3): 495-548. https://doi.org/10.2307/2273587.

Gil Martín, Francisco Javier, and Jesús Vega Encabo. 2008. "Truth and Moral Objectivity: Procedural Realism in Putnam's Pragmatism." *Theoria: An International Journal for Theory, History and Foundations of Science* 23(3): 343-356.

Glenn, Patrick. Forthcoming. "The Architecture of Failure: How Systemic Brittleness Drives Convergent Coherence to Forge Objective Truth."

Goldman, Alvin I. 1979. "What Is Justified Belief?" In *Justification and Knowledge: New Studies in Epistemology*, edited by George S. Pappas, 1–23. Dordrecht: D. Reidel. https://doi.org/10.1007/978-94-009-9493-5_1.

Goldman, Alvin I. 1999. *Knowledge in a Social World*. Oxford: Oxford University Press. ISBN 978-0198238201.

Goodman, Nelson. 1983. *Fact, Fiction, and Forecast*. 4th ed. Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press (originally 1954). ISBN 978-0674290716.

Haack, Susan. 1993. *Evidence and Inquiry: Towards Reconstruction in Epistemology*. Oxford: Blackwell. ISBN 978-0631196792.

Harding, Sandra. 1991. *Whose Science? Whose Knowledge? Thinking from Women's Lives*. Ithaca, NY: Cornell University Press. ISBN 978-0801497469.

Hartmann, Stephan, and Borut Trpin. 2023. "Conjunctive Explanations: A Coherentist Appraisal." In *Conjunctive Explanations: The Nature, Epistemology, and Psychology of Explanatory Multiplicity*, edited by Jonah N. Schupbach and David H. Glass, 111–129. Cham: Springer.

Henrich, Joseph. 2015. *The Secret of Our Success: How Culture Is Driving Human Evolution, Domesticating Our Species, and Making Us Smarter*. Princeton, NJ: Princeton University Press. ISBN 978-0691178431.

Hodge, A. Trevor. 1992. *Roman Aqueducts & Water Supply*. London: Duckworth. ISBN 978-0715631713.

Holling, C. S. 1973. "Resilience and Stability of Ecological Systems." *Annual Review of Ecology and Systematics* 4: 1–23. https://doi.org/10.1146/annurev.es.04.110173.000245.

Hull, David L. 1988. *Science as a Process: An Evolutionary Account of the Social and Conceptual Development of Science*. Chicago: University of Chicago Press. ISBN 978-0226360508.

Kelly, Thomas. 2005. "The Epistemic Significance of Disagreement." In *Oxford Studies in Epistemology*, vol. 1, edited by Tamar Szabó Gendler and John Hawthorne, 167–96. Oxford: Oxford University Press.

Kim, Jaegwon. 1988. "What Is 'Naturalized Epistemology'?" *Philosophical Perspectives* 2: 381–405. https://doi.org/10.2307/2214082.

Kitcher, Philip. 1993. *The Advancement of Science: Science without Legend, Objectivity without Illusions*. New York: Oxford University Press. ISBN 978-0195046281.

Kornblith, Hilary. 2002. *Knowledge and Its Place in Nature*. Oxford: Clarendon Press. ISBN 978-0199246311.

Kuhn, Thomas S. 1996. *The Structure of Scientific Revolutions*. 3rd ed. Chicago: University of Chicago Press (originally 1962). ISBN 978-0226458083.

Kvanvig, Jonathan L. 2012. "Coherentism and Justified Inconsistent Beliefs: A Solution." *Southern Journal of Philosophy* 50(1): 21–41. https://doi.org/10.1111/j.2041-6962.2011.00090.x.

Ladyman, James, and Don Ross. 2007. *Every Thing Must Go: Metaphysics Naturalized*. Oxford: Oxford University Press. ISBN 978-0199276196.

Lakatos, Imre. 1970. "Falsification and the Methodology of Scientific Research Programmes." In *Criticism and the Growth of Knowledge*, edited by Imre Lakatos and Alan Musgrave, 91–196. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.

Laudan, Larry. 1977. *Progress and Its Problems: Towards a Theory of Scientific Growth*. Berkeley: University of California Press. ISBN 978-0520037212.

Lehrer, Keith. 1990. *Theory of Knowledge*. Boulder, CO: Westview Press. ISBN 978-0415054072.

Li, Y., et al. 2025. "Pragmatics in the Era of Large Language Models: A Survey on Datasets, Evaluation, Opportunities and Challenges." arXiv preprint arXiv:2502.12378.

Longino, Helen E. 2002. *The Fate of Knowledge*. Princeton, NJ: Princeton University Press. ISBN 978-0691088761.

Lugones, María. 2003. *Pilgrimages/Peregrinajes: Theorizing Coalition against Multiple Oppressions*. Lanham, MD: Rowman & Littlefield. ISBN 978-0742514591.

Mallapaty, Smriti. 2020. "AI models fail to capture the complexity of human language." *Nature* 588: 24. https://doi.org/10.1038/d41586-024-00824-z.

Lynch, Michael P. 2009. *Truth as One and Many*. Oxford: Clarendon Press. ISBN 978-0199218738.

Meadows, Donella H. 2008. *Thinking in Systems: A Primer*. Edited by Diana Wright. White River Junction, VT: Chelsea Green Publishing. ISBN 978-1603580557.

Mesoudi, Alex. 2011. *Cultural Evolution: How Darwinian Theory Can Explain Human Culture and Synthesize the Social Sciences*. Chicago: University of Chicago Press. ISBN 978-0226520445.

MLPerf Association. 2023. "MLPerf Training Results." https://mlcommons.org/benchmarks/training/.

Ingthorsson, Rögnvaldur D. 2013. "Properties: Qualities, Powers, or Both?" *Dialectica* 67, no. 1: 55–80. https://doi.org/10.1111/1746-8361.12011.

Sinclair, Robert. 2007. "Quine's Naturalized Epistemology and the Third Dogma of Empiricism." *Southern Journal of Philosophy* 45, no. 3: 455–472. https://doi.org/10.1111/j.2041-6962.2007.tb00060.x.

Newman, Mark. 2010. *Networks: An Introduction*. Oxford: Oxford University Press. ISBN 978-0199206650.

Olsson, Erik J. 2005. *Against Coherence: Truth, Probability, and Justification*. Oxford: Oxford University Press. ISBN 978-0199279999.

Ostrom, Elinor. 1990. *Governing the Commons: The Evolution of Institutions for Collective Action*. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press. ISBN 978-0521405997.

Patterson, Orlando. 1982. *Slavery and Social Death: A Comparative Study*. Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press. ISBN 978-0674986909.

Peirce, Charles S. 1992. "How to Make Our Ideas Clear." In *The Essential Peirce: Selected Philosophical Writings*, vol. 1 (1867–1893), edited by Nathan Houser and Christian Kloesel, 124–41. Bloomington: Indiana University Press (originally 1878).

Peter, Fabienne. 2024. "Moral Affordances and the Demands of Fittingness." *Philosophical Psychology* 37(7): 1948–70. https://doi.org/10.1080/09515089.2023.2236120.

Plantinga, Alvin. 1993. *Warrant and Proper Function*. New York: Oxford University Press. ISBN 978-0195078640.

Plantinga, Alvin. 2011. *Where the Conflict Really Lies: Science, Religion, and Naturalism*. New York: Oxford University Press. ISBN 978-0199812097.

Popper, Karl. 1959. *The Logic of Scientific Discovery*. London: Hutchinson (originally 1934). ISBN 978-0415278447.

Price, Huw. 1992. "Metaphysical Pluralism." *Journal of Philosophy* 89(8): 387–409. https://doi.org/10.2307/2940741.

Pritchard, Duncan. 2016. "Epistemic Risk." *Journal of Philosophy* 113(11): 550–571. https://doi.org/10.5840/jphil20161131137.

Psillos, Stathis. 1999. *Scientific Realism: How Science Tracks Truth*. London: Routledge. ISBN 978-0415208192.

Putnam, Hilary. 2002. *The Collapse of the Fact/Value Dichotomy and Other Essays*. Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press. ISBN 978-0674013803.

Quine, W. V. O. 1951. "Two Dogmas of Empiricism." *Philosophical Review* 60(1): 20–43. https://doi.org/10.2307/2181906.

Quine, W. V. O. 1960. *Word and Object*. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press. ISBN 978-0262670012.

Railton, Peter. 1986. "Moral Realism." *The Philosophical Review* 95(2): 163–207. https://doi.org/10.2307/2185589.

Rescher, Nicholas. 1996. *Process Metaphysics: An Introduction to Process Philosophy*. Albany: State University of New York Press. ISBN 978-0791428184.

Roda, Weston C., Marie B. Varughese, Donglin Han, and Michael Y. Li. 2020. "Why Is It Difficult to Accurately Predict the COVID-19 Epidemic?" *Infectious Disease Modelling* 5: 271–281. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.idm.2020.03.001.

Rorty, Richard. 1989. *Contingency, Irony, and Solidarity*. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press. ISBN 978-0521367813.

Rosenstock, Sarita, Cailin O'Connor, and Justin Bruner. 2017. "In Epistemic Networks, Is Less Really More?" *Philosophy of Science* 84(2): 234–52. https://doi.org/10.1086/690717.

Rottschaefer, William A. 2012. "Moral Realism and Evolutionary Moral Psychology." In *The Oxford Handbook of Moral Realism*, edited by Paul Bloomfield, 123–45. Oxford: Oxford University Press. ISBN 978-0190068226.

Rottschaefer, William A. 2012. "The Moral Realism of Pragmatic Naturalism." *Analyse & Kritik* 34(1): 141–156. https://doi.org/10.1515/auk-2012-0110.

Sterelny, Kim. 2012. “Morality’s Dark Past.” *Analyse & Kritik* 34, no. 1: 95–116. https://doi.org/10.1515/auk-2012-0107.


Russell, Bertrand. 1903. *The Principles of Mathematics*. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press. ISBN 978-1430476030.

Ladyman, James, and Don Ross. 2007. *Every Thing Must Go: Metaphysics Naturalized*. Oxford: Oxford University Press. ISBN 978-0199276196.

Mackie, J. L. 1977. *Ethics: Inventing Right and Wrong*. London: Penguin Books. ISBN 978-0140135589.

Rorty, Richard. 1979. *Philosophy and the Mirror of Nature*. Princeton, NJ: Princeton University Press. ISBN 978-0691020167.

Sevilla, Jaime, Lennart Heim, Anson Ho, Tamay Besiroglu, Marius Hobbhahn, and Pablo Villalobos. 2022. "Compute Trends Across Three Eras of Machine Learning." arXiv preprint arXiv:2202.05924.

March, James G. 1978. "Bounded Rationality, Ambiguity, and the Engineering of Choice." *The Bell Journal of Economics* 9, no. 2: 587–608. https://doi.org/10.2307/3003600.

Sims, Matthew. 2024. "The Principle of Dynamic Holism: Guiding Methodology for Investigating Cognition in Nonneuronal Organisms." *Philosophy of Science* 91(2): 430–48. https://doi.org/10.1017/psa.2023.104.

Snow, John. 1855. *On the Mode of Communication of Cholera*. London: John Churchill.

Staffel, Julia. 2019. "Coherentism and Belief Fixation." In *Reasons, Justification, and Defeat*, edited by Jessica Brown and Mona Simion, 187–208. Oxford: Oxford University Press.

Staffel, Julia. 2019. "Reasons Fundamentalism and Rational Uncertainty: The Externalist Response." *Philosophy and Phenomenological Research* 103(3): 555–73. https://doi.org/10.1111/phpr.12595.

Taleb, Nassim Nicholas. 2012. *Antifragile: Things That Gain from Disorder*. New York: Random House. ISBN 978-1400067824.

Tauriainen, Teemu. 2017. "Quine on Truth." *Philosophical Forum* 48(4): 397–416. https://doi.org/10.1111/phil.12170.

Tauriainen, Teemu. 2017. "Quine's Naturalistic Conception of Truth." Master's thesis, University of Jyväskylä.

Turchin, Peter. 2003. *Historical Dynamics: Why States Rise and Fall*. Princeton, NJ: Princeton University Press. ISBN 978-0691116693.

Fogel, Robert William, and Stanley L. Engerman. 1974. *Time on the Cross: The Economics of American Negro Slavery*. Boston: Little, Brown and Company. ISBN 978-0393312188.

Worrall, John. 1989. "Structural Realism: The Best of Both Worlds?" *Dialectica* 43(1–2): 99–124. https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1746-8361.1989.tb00933.x.

Wright, Sewall. 1932. "The Roles of Mutation, Inbreeding, Crossbreeding and Selection in Evolution." *Proceedings of the Sixth International Congress of Genetics* 1: 356–66.

Zagzebski, Linda Trinkaus. 1996. *Virtues of the Mind: An Inquiry into the Nature of Virtue and the Ethical Foundations of Knowledge*. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press. ISBN 978-0521570602. https://doi.org/10.1017/CBO9780511582233.

Zollman, Kevin J. S. 2013. "Network Epistemology: Communication in Epistemic Communities." *Philosophy Compass* 8(1): 15–27. https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1747-9991.2012.00534.x.

World Bank. 2012. *World Development Report 2012: Gender Equality and Development*. Washington, DC: World Bank. ISBN 978-0821388105.

Duflo, Esther. 2012. "Women Empowerment and Economic Development." *Journal of Economic Literature* 50(4): 1051–79. https://doi.org/10.1257/jel.50.4.1051.

Axelrod, Robert. 1984. *The Evolution of Cooperation*. New York: Basic Books. ISBN 978-0465021215.

Bagnoli, Carla, ed. 2013. *Constructivism in Ethics*. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press. ISBN 978-1107019218. https://doi.org/10.1017/CBO9780511676314.

Bennett, Andrew, and Jeffrey T. Checkel, eds. 2014. *Process Tracing: From Metaphor to Analytic Tool*. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press. ISBN 978-1107044524. https://doi.org/10.1017/CBO9780511803123.

Conquest, Robert. 1990. *The Great Terror: A Reassessment*. Oxford: Oxford University Press. ISBN 978-0195055801.

Foot, Philippa. 2001. *Natural Goodness*. Oxford: Clarendon Press. ISBN 978-0198235088. https://doi.org/10.1093/0198235089.001.0001.

Habermas, Jürgen. 1990. *Moral Consciousness and Communicative Action*. Translated by Christian Lenhardt and Shierry Weber Nicholsen. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press. ISBN 978-0262081924.

Harding, Sandra G. 2004. *The Feminist Standpoint Theory Reader*. New York: Routledge. ISBN 978-0415945011.

Joyce, Richard. 2001. *The Myth of Morality*. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press. ISBN 978-0521808064. https://doi.org/10.1017/CBO9780511487101.

Kitcher, Philip. 2011. *The Ethical Project*. Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press. ISBN 978-0674061446.

Korsgaard, Christine M. 1996. *The Sources of Normativity*. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press. ISBN 978-0521559607. https://doi.org/10.1017/CBO9780511554476.

Rawls, John. 1971. *A Theory of Justice*. Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press. ISBN 978-0674880108.

Scott, James C. 1998. *Seeing Like a State: How Certain Schemes to Improve the Human Condition Have Failed*. New Haven, CT: Yale University Press. ISBN 978-0300070163.

Street, Sharon. 2006. "A Darwinian Dilemma for Realist Theories of Value." *Philosophical Studies* 127(1): 109–66. https://doi.org/10.1007/s11098-005-1726-6.

Streumer, Bart. 2025. "Quasi-Realism for Realists." *Philosophers' Imprint* 25(8): 1–17. https://doi.org/10.3998/phimp.4728.

Tainter, Joseph A. 1988. *The Collapse of Complex Societies*. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press. ISBN 978-0521386739.
