VERIFY_REFERENCES_README.md, before:

# Reference Verification Script

Automatically verify and correct academic references in `references.md` using multiple free APIs (CrossRef, OpenLibrary, arXiv) with Claude CLI as a research fallback.

## Quick Start

```bash
# Preview what would change (recommended first run)
bun run verify-references.ts --dry-run --skip-claude

# Actually verify and correct references
bun run verify-references.ts

# Fast verification without Claude CLI fallback
bun run verify-references.ts --skip-claude
```

## Features

- **Multi-source verification**: CrossRef (DOI), OpenLibrary (ISBN), arXiv, web validation, Claude CLI
- **Automatic correction**: Fixes errors in author names, years, titles with confidence scoring
- **Smart fallback**: Uses verification waterfall - tries most reliable sources first
- **Safe updates**: Creates timestamped backups before modifying files
- **Detailed reporting**: Console progress + unverifiable references report

## How It Works

### Verification Waterfall

The script tries each verifier in order until one succeeds:

1. **CrossRef** (DOI verification) - confidence: 0.95
   - Most reliable for journal articles
   - Validates DOIs and metadata

2. **arXiv** (preprint verification) - confidence: 0.90
   - Validates arXiv IDs
   - Returns correct titles and years

3. **OpenLibrary** (ISBN verification) - confidence: 0.85
   - Validates book ISBNs
   - Returns metadata (note: sometimes has wrong publication years)

4. **Web Search** (URL validation) - confidence: 0.70
   - Checks if URLs are accessible
   - Validates HTTP/HTTPS links

5. **Claude CLI** (research fallback) - confidence: 0.40-0.50
   - Uses web search to find references
   - Handles ambiguous cases
   - **Note**: Costs API credits, use `--skip-claude` to disable

### Confidence Threshold

- Default threshold: **0.7**
- Only corrections above threshold are auto-applied
- Lower confidence corrections are flagged in reports

## Usage

### Basic Commands

```bash
# Standard verification with all features
bun run verify-references.ts

# Dry run (preview changes without modifying files)
bun run verify-references.ts --dry-run

# Skip Claude CLI (faster, no API costs)
bun run verify-references.ts --skip-claude

# Custom input/output
bun run verify-references.ts -i custom-refs.md -o corrected-refs.md

# Higher confidence threshold (more conservative)
bun run verify-references.ts --confidence-threshold 0.85
```

### All Options

```
-i, --input <file>              Input file (default: ./references.md)
-o, --output <file>             Output file (default: overwrites input)
-b, --[no-]backup               Create backup (default: true)
--backup-dir <dir>              Backup directory (default: ./backups)
--confidence-threshold <num>    Min confidence for auto-correction (default: 0.7)
--report-path <file>            Unverifiable refs report (default: ./unverifiable-references.md)
--dry-run                       Preview changes only
--skip-claude                   Skip Claude CLI fallback
-v, --verbose                   Verbose logging
-h, --help                      Show help
```

## Output

### Console Output

```
[1/383] ✓ Acemoglu 2012 (openlibrary)
[2/383] ✎ Anderson 1996 (crossref)
  └─ title: CrossRef has different title
[3/383] ✗ Unknown 2025 (claude-cli)
```

**Status Symbols:**
- ✓ = Verified (metadata matches)
- ✎ = Corrected (found discrepancies, corrections suggested)
- ✗ = Failed (could not verify)
- ⊘ = Skipped (no identifiers to verify)

### Generated Files

1. **Backup** (if enabled): `./backups/references.md.{timestamp}.bak`
2. **Unverifiable report**: `./unverifiable-references.md`
   - Lists all failed verifications
   - Includes original text and reasons
   - Provides manual review checklist

## Supported Reference Types

The script can parse and verify:

- **Journal articles** with DOI
- **Books** with ISBN
- **arXiv preprints**
- **Book chapters**
- **Web resources** (PhilPapers, SSRN, OSF, etc.)
- **Generic preprints**

## API Rate Limits

The script automatically rate-limits API calls:

- CrossRef: 10 requests/second
- OpenLibrary: 2 requests/second
- arXiv: 1 request/3 seconds
- Web validation: 1 request/second
- Claude CLI: 1 request/5 seconds

**Estimated runtime for 383 references:** 15-30 minutes

## Common Issues

### OpenLibrary Year Discrepancies

OpenLibrary sometimes returns incorrect publication years (e.g., 2012 → 2013). These are low-confidence corrections. Review the unverifiable references report before accepting.

### CrossRef Title Differences

CrossRef may return shorter titles (without subtitles). Example:
- Reference: "Statistical learning: From acquiring specific items to forming general rules"
- CrossRef: "Statistical Learning"

This is normal - CrossRef stores the main title separately from subtitles.

### Author Names Showing as "Unknown"

This occurs when the author parsing fails. The verification still works based on other metadata (DOI, ISBN, title). Check the unverifiable references report.

### Claude CLI Costs

If Claude CLI is enabled, each reference that falls through all other verifiers will trigger a Claude API call. This can add up for many unverifiable references. Use `--skip-claude` to avoid costs.

## Recommended Workflow

1. **First run (preview)**:
   ```bash
   bun run verify-references.ts --dry-run --skip-claude
   ```
   Reviews what would change without modifying files or using Claude.

2. **Review dry-run output**:
   - Check suggested corrections
   - Review unverifiable references report
   - Decide if you want Claude CLI fallback

3. **Final run**:
   ```bash
   # Without Claude (faster, free)
   bun run verify-references.ts --skip-claude

   # With Claude (more comprehensive)
   bun run verify-references.ts
   ```

4. **Review changes**:
   - Check `references.md` for corrections
   - Review `unverifiable-references.md` for manual fixes
   - Backup is in `./backups/` if you need to revert

## Technical Details

### File Structure

The script is a single TypeScript file (`verify-references.ts`) with:
- Reference parser (Chicago-style citations)
- API verifiers (CrossRef, OpenLibrary, arXiv, web, Claude)
- Rate limiters
- Backup manager
- Console and file reporters
- CLI interface

### Correction Logic

Corrections are applied only when:
1. Verification confidence ≥ threshold (default 0.7)
2. Fuzzy matching detects meaningful differences
3. Authority hierarchy: CrossRef > arXiv > OpenLibrary > web > Claude

### Levenshtein Distance

Title and author matching uses Levenshtein distance with 5% tolerance to avoid false positives from minor typos or formatting differences.

## Examples

### Example 1: Successful Verification

```
Input:  Friston, Karl J. 2010. "The Free-Energy Principle: A Unified Brain Theory?"
        *Nature Reviews Neuroscience* 11 (2): 127–138. https://doi.org/10.1038/nrn2787.

Output: [1/1] ✓ Friston 2010 (crossref)
        All references verified successfully!
```

### Example 2: Correction Needed

```
Input:  Some Author. 2020. "Wrong Title." *Journal* 1(1): 1-10. https://doi.org/10.1234/wrong

Output: [1/1] ✎ Author 2020 (crossref)
          └─ title: CrossRef has different title
          └─ year: CrossRef has different year

        POTENTIAL CHANGES
        Line 3:
          title: "Wrong Title" → "Correct Title"
          Reason: CrossRef has different title
          year: "2020" → "2021"
          Reason: CrossRef has different year
```

### Example 3: Unverifiable

```
Input:  Unknown, Author. 2025. "Cannot Find This." *Fake Journal*.

Output: [1/1] ✗ Unknown 2025 (claude-cli)

        Unverifiable references report: ./unverifiable-references.md
        (Manual review required)
```

## Development

### Dependencies

- Bun runtime
- No npm packages required (uses Bun built-ins)

### Testing

```bash
# Test with sample file
bun run verify-references.ts -i test-refs.md --dry-run

# Test specific features
bun run verify-references.ts --help
```

## License

Part of the academic paper toolset. Use freely for academic work.

## Support

If you encounter issues:
1. Run with `--dry-run` first to preview
2. Check `unverifiable-references.md` for details
3. Use `--verbose` for debugging output
4. Review backups in `./backups/` to revert changes

For questions about specific references, consult the unverifiable references report which includes reasons for failures and suggested actions.

Commit message:

Implement functional Claude CLI integration for reference verification

VERIFY_REFERENCES_README.md, after:

# Reference Verification Script

Automatically verify and correct academic references in `references.md` using multiple free APIs (CrossRef, OpenLibrary, arXiv) with Claude CLI as a research fallback.

## Quick Start

```bash
# Preview what would change (recommended first run)
bun run verify-references.ts --dry-run --skip-claude

# Actually verify and correct references
bun run verify-references.ts

# Fast verification without Claude CLI fallback
bun run verify-references.ts --skip-claude
```

## Features

- **Multi-source verification**: CrossRef (DOI), OpenLibrary (ISBN), arXiv, web validation, Claude CLI
- **Automatic correction**: Fixes errors in author names, years, titles with confidence scoring
- **Smart fallback**: Uses verification waterfall - tries most reliable sources first
- **Safe updates**: Creates timestamped backups before modifying files
- **Detailed reporting**: Console progress + unverifiable references report

## How It Works

### Verification Waterfall

The script tries each verifier in order until one succeeds:

1. **CrossRef** (DOI verification) - confidence: 0.95
   - Most reliable for journal articles
   - Validates DOIs and metadata

2. **arXiv** (preprint verification) - confidence: 0.90
   - Validates arXiv IDs
   - Returns correct titles and years

3. **OpenLibrary** (ISBN verification) - confidence: 0.85
   - Validates book ISBNs
   - Returns metadata (note: sometimes has wrong publication years)

4. **Web Search** (URL validation) - confidence: 0.70
   - Checks if URLs are accessible
   - Validates HTTP/HTTPS links

5. **Claude CLI** (intelligent research) - confidence: 0.40-0.80
   - Uses Claude AI to research and verify references
   - Searches academic databases and web sources
   - Handles complex or ambiguous cases
   - **Note**: Requires Claude CLI installation, use `--skip-claude` to disable

### Confidence Threshold

- Default threshold: **0.7**
- Only corrections above threshold are auto-applied
- Lower confidence corrections are flagged in reports

## Usage

### Basic Commands

```bash
# Standard verification with all features
bun run verify-references.ts

# Dry run (preview changes without modifying files)
bun run verify-references.ts --dry-run

# Skip Claude CLI (faster, no API costs)
bun run verify-references.ts --skip-claude

# Custom input/output
bun run verify-references.ts -i custom-refs.md -o corrected-refs.md

# Higher confidence threshold (more conservative)
bun run verify-references.ts --confidence-threshold 0.85
```

### All Options

```
-i, --input <file>              Input file (default: ./references.md)
-o, --output <file>             Output file (default: overwrites input)
-b, --[no-]backup               Create backup (default: true)
--backup-dir <dir>              Backup directory (default: ./backups)
--confidence-threshold <num>    Min confidence for auto-correction (default: 0.7)
--report-path <file>            Unverifiable refs report (default: ./unverifiable-references.md)
--dry-run                       Preview changes only
--skip-claude                   Skip Claude CLI fallback
-v, --verbose                   Verbose logging
-h, --help                      Show help
```

## Output

### Console Output

```
[1/383] ✓ Acemoglu 2012 (openlibrary)
[2/383] ✎ Anderson 1996 (crossref)
  └─ title: CrossRef has different title
[3/383] ✗ Unknown 2025 (claude-cli)
```

**Status Symbols:**
- ✓ = Verified (metadata matches)
- ✎ = Corrected (found discrepancies, corrections suggested)
- ✗ = Failed (could not verify)
- ⊘ = Skipped (no identifiers to verify)

### Generated Files

1. **Backup** (if enabled): `./backups/references.md.{timestamp}.bak`
2. **Unverifiable report**: `./unverifiable-references.md`
   - Lists all failed verifications
   - Includes original text and reasons
   - Provides manual review checklist

## Supported Reference Types

The script can parse and verify:

- **Journal articles** with DOI
- **Books** with ISBN
- **arXiv preprints**
- **Book chapters**
- **Web resources** (PhilPapers, SSRN, OSF, etc.)
- **Generic preprints**

## API Rate Limits

The script automatically rate-limits API calls:

- CrossRef: 10 requests/second
- OpenLibrary: 2 requests/second
- arXiv: 1 request/3 seconds
- Web validation: 1 request/second
- Claude CLI: 1 request/5 seconds

**Estimated runtime for 383 references:** 15-30 minutes

## Common Issues

### OpenLibrary Year Discrepancies

OpenLibrary sometimes returns incorrect publication years (e.g., 2012 → 2013). These are low-confidence corrections. Review the unverifiable references report before accepting.

### CrossRef Title Differences

CrossRef may return shorter titles (without subtitles). Example:
- Reference: "Statistical learning: From acquiring specific items to forming general rules"
- CrossRef: "Statistical Learning"

This is normal - CrossRef stores the main title separately from subtitles.

### Author Names Showing as "Unknown"

This occurs when the author parsing fails. The verification still works based on other metadata (DOI, ISBN, title). Check the unverifiable references report.

### Claude CLI Usage

Claude CLI provides intelligent research capabilities for references that cannot be verified through standard APIs. It uses Claude AI to search academic databases and web sources. Requires Claude CLI to be installed and configured. Use `--skip-claude` to disable if you prefer faster execution without AI research.

## Recommended Workflow

1. **First run (preview)**:
   ```bash
   bun run verify-references.ts --dry-run --skip-claude
   ```
   Reviews what would change without modifying files or using Claude.

2. **Review dry-run output**:
   - Check suggested corrections
   - Review unverifiable references report
   - Decide if you want Claude CLI fallback

3. **Final run**:
   ```bash
   # Without Claude (faster, free)
   bun run verify-references.ts --skip-claude

   # With Claude (more comprehensive)
   bun run verify-references.ts
   ```

4. **Review changes**:
   - Check `references.md` for corrections
   - Review `unverifiable-references.md` for manual fixes
   - Backup is in `./backups/` if you need to revert

## Technical Details

### File Structure

The script is a single TypeScript file (`verify-references.ts`) with:
- Reference parser (Chicago-style citations)
- API verifiers (CrossRef, OpenLibrary, arXiv, web, Claude)
- Rate limiters
- Backup manager
- Console and file reporters
- CLI interface

### Correction Logic

Corrections are applied only when:
1. Verification confidence ≥ threshold (default 0.7)
2. Fuzzy matching detects meaningful differences
3. Authority hierarchy: CrossRef > arXiv > OpenLibrary > web > Claude

### Levenshtein Distance

Title and author matching uses Levenshtein distance with 5% tolerance to avoid false positives from minor typos or formatting differences.

## Examples

### Example 1: Successful Verification

```
Input:  Friston, Karl J. 2010. "The Free-Energy Principle: A Unified Brain Theory?"
        *Nature Reviews Neuroscience* 11 (2): 127–138. https://doi.org/10.1038/nrn2787.

Output: [1/1] ✓ Friston 2010 (crossref)
        All references verified successfully!
```

### Example 2: Correction Needed

```
Input:  Some Author. 2020. "Wrong Title." *Journal* 1(1): 1-10. https://doi.org/10.1234/wrong

Output: [1/1] ✎ Author 2020 (crossref)
          └─ title: CrossRef has different title
          └─ year: CrossRef has different year

        POTENTIAL CHANGES
        Line 3:
          title: "Wrong Title" → "Correct Title"
          Reason: CrossRef has different title
          year: "2020" → "2021"
          Reason: CrossRef has different year
```

### Example 3: Unverifiable

```
Input:  Unknown, Author. 2025. "Cannot Find This." *Fake Journal*.

Output: [1/1] ✗ Unknown 2025 (claude-cli)

        Unverifiable references report: ./unverifiable-references.md
        (Manual review required)
```

## Development

### Dependencies

- Bun runtime
- No npm packages required (uses Bun built-ins)

### Testing

```bash
# Test with sample file
bun run verify-references.ts -i test-refs.md --dry-run

# Test specific features
bun run verify-references.ts --help
```

## License

Part of the academic paper toolset. Use freely for academic work.

## Support

If you encounter issues:
1. Run with `--dry-run` first to preview
2. Check `unverifiable-references.md` for details
3. Use `--verbose` for debugging output
4. Review backups in `./backups/` to revert changes

For questions about specific references, consult the unverifiable references report which includes reasons for failures and suggested actions.
