contain only zeros) but differ in the number of states they have and in their rules for transitioning between them. These machines compute the same function in different ways. As we saw, Dennett's criterion struggled to discriminate between computational models in these cases because of its focus on predicting the target phenomenon (such as a machine accepting strings of zeros and rejecting strings that contain a ‘1').

In contrast, the criterion here directly evaluates the structural similarity between the states/state transitions exhibited by the target system and those described by each model. It also retains the original's concern about predictive power, because satisfying the counterfactual constraint (ultimately) implies that the function computed by the model is computed by the system under our mapping. The reason for this is that obeying the transition function of the model is sufficient (but not necessary) for computing the relevant function. The exact details of our mapping would differ from case to case, but the key point here is that the simplicity criterion directly considers those elements of a model relevant to evaluating its account of how a target phenomenon is produced—what it says about the states of a system and about how those states evolve over time.

### Further Considerations

The simplicity criterion proposes that models requiring simpler mappings more faithfully represent the target system than do models requiring more complex mappings, all else being equal. Naturally, a number of other factors might be relevant in determining when all else is equal, and difficult questions remain about how to weigh the factors considered above. For example, we must weigh the relative importance of mapping simplicity and the reliability with which the physical system evolves, as predicted by our model under that mapping. After all, counterfactual reliability is itself a graded notion. Probabilistic models can exhibit different degrees of specificity and different degrees of accuracy with respect to observed distributions. Even deterministic models might predict the correct outcome more or less often. It is also important to consider the simplicity of the model itself. This will probably be an important factor, especially when adjudicating between models that are similarly accurate and similarly reliable.

Identifying all relevant factors, developing conventions for quantifying them, and assessing their relative importance is an important (if demanding) project. My main concern here, however, is to explain the connection between simplicity and similarity and to establish the relevance of this connection to pattern instantiation. As such, I do not think that we should be too committed (yet) to any particular formalization of this criterion, and I am open to any compelling alternatives. Regardless, it will usually suffice to (i) show how a project of precisifying our informal interpretation might proceed, (ii) address any apparent barriers to this project, and (iii) provide reasonably strong reasons to think that the resulting mapping will be substantially simpler for the proposed model than for relevant competitors. Again, the key point of my argument is that there is a genuine connection not only between compression and regularity, but between compression and similarity. While one may disagree about the precise formalization of the criterion or the proper weighting of relevant factors, the connection between compression and similarity will remain.