these concerns will be complementary to any externalist account that make at least some demands on the internal structure of cognitive systems.

The blockhead is such a compelling case because the blockhead so clearly differs from ordinary humans. The main problem with the blockhead seems to be that its propositional attitudes are more a matter of our exegetical efforts than of any belief-like or desire-like internal structure. After all, if we opened up the blockhead and examined the present state of its software, we would gain no insights into its present intentional states beyond those possessed by any attentive interlocutor. We would simply find an accurate record of what both parties have said. Suppose that we wanted to detect deception, resolve a semantic ambiguity, or infer an unstated belief. Nothing new would be revealed by examining the conversation history stored inside the blockhead.

A consequence of this is that if we want to interpret the blockhead as an intentional system, we are forced to deploy our own folk psychological competence to craft this interpretation. In contrast, imagine a highly idealized human that tokens a unique symbol string in her head for every belief/desire that she has, where each string is unique to a belief/desire with a particular propositional content. Examining the internal state of such a human would make attributing plausible beliefs and desires to her a (relatively) trivial matter of parsing strings. These attributions would require little or no competence with intentional stance reasoning.

Returning to the criterion offered earlier, consider the length of the shortest program for computing (for each system) a mapping from its physical states to its intentional states. These state attributions must ultimately facilitate accurate behavioural predictions, and so they must at least be plausible in light of the systems' observed behaviour; random or arbitrary mappings will not do. While the mapping program in both the idealized human case and the blockhead case must have the competence required for detecting and parsing symbol strings, only the latter must solve the problem of interpreting the verbal behaviour of its subject. Recall that the physical states of the idealized human token symbols that correspond directly to her intentional states. The blockhead, on the other hand, tokens symbols representing its actual (and potential) verbal behaviour. Hence, to ascribe predictively useful intentional states to the blockhead on the basis of its physical states requires our mapping program to interpret the blockhead's behaviour in much the same way as any attentive interlocutor.

Obviously, incorporating this folk psychological competence would substantially lengthen our mapping program for the blockhead. This illustrates how program length varies with the amount of outside information that must be supplied to interpret one system as another—in this case, a look-up table as an intentional system. Since there is a straightforward correspondence between the physical states of the human and her intentional states, less information must be brought in to determine her intentional state from her physical state. This is analogous to the formal result discussed earlier—that a program for mapping one string to another (or vice versa) must contain at least enough bits to represent any information present in one string but not the other.

In this way, the simplicity criterion confirms our intuitive sense that the ‘beliefs' ascribed to the blockhead are more a matter of our exegetical efforts than of any facts about the functional organization of the blockhead. After all, even when we have perfect access to the internal states of the blockhead, our program must replicate