3.5 Realist Desiderata Revisited

Earlier, I argued that a realist account of pattern instantiation must (i) explain scientific scepticism about the accuracy of predictively successful models and (ii) remain flexible enough to accommodate cases of multiple realizability. With respect to the first desideratum, I follow prior work in the philosophy of science which observes that scientists are interested in ‘whether the structure of the model maps well onto the target system of interest', where ‘maps well' is interpreted as an abstract similarity relation [Weisberg 2016: 267]. The simplicity criterion, in turn, quantifies the degree of similarity in specific cases. On this view, a scientist might be sceptical about whether the ontology and dynamics of a predictively successful model are sufficiently similar to the ontology and dynamics of the target physical system.

The criterion is also flexible enough to preserve multiple realizability and reject chauvinism. The criterion does not require that we specify what it means for any physical system to instantiate a particular model. Each mapping is specific to the physical system in question and does not require a general theory of what it is, physically speaking, to instantiate a particular model. We need only say what it means for this or that physical system to instantiate a particular model. This explains how the criterion is consistent with the multiple realizability of patterns and the rejection of chauvinism—that is, by permitting different mappings for systems that differ physically.

### 3.6 A Case Study: The Blockhead

Before moving on, it will be worthwhile to examine a case where the proposed criterion delivers plausible judgments about model instantiation. It will be particularly helpful to consider a case that supports realist concerns about real patterns. Recall that Dennett [1991] offers real patterns as an ontological account of intentional mental states identified via his intentional stance [Dennett 1989]. Block [1981] asks us to imagine that a vast look-up table has been programmed to hold realistic conversations of some arbitrary finite length. Dispensing with the usual trappings of natural language processing, this ‘blockhead' substitutes rote memorization for genuine linguistic competence. The blockhead records the conversation up to the present moment, and every possible conversation history (up to some arbitrary length) has an entry in its look-up table. Each entry in the lookup table is matched to a conversationally appropriate response that the blockhead dutifully produces.

While Block intended this case to expose the limitations of behaviourism in psychology, the blockhead also threatens Dennett's real patterns approach to intentional systems. After all, as Dennett argues, ‘Anything that is usefully and voluminously predictable from the intentional stance is, by definition, an intentional system' [2009: 339]. Ex hypothesi, the blockhead is just such a system. Building on some of Dennett's other work, several philosophers of cognitive science have pursued externalism about mental states as a strategy for addressing these (and other) concerns about the intentional stance. For example, it is far from clear that the blockhead has (or could have) the right kind of causal history to qualify as a true believer. While this is a promising strategy, I am considering the blockhead in the context of concerns about whether a system, narrowly considered, genuinely exhibits certain patterns of activity or organization, as represented by a model [D. Wallace 2012; Weisberg 2016]. Fortunately, addressing