make sense of such concerns by explaining how a predictively successful model might fail to capture the structure of its target system.

A realist criterion must also preserve multiple realizability and avoid chauvinism about particular realizers. Despite the problems outlined in the previous section, there is something deeply right about Dennett's ‘maximal neutrality' about pattern realization [2009: 346]. For example, multiple realizability is a key feature of functionalist accounts of the mind, and a revised account of real patterns should preserve this feature. To do so, it must be clear how the structure proposed by a model can be realized by physically dissimilar systems.

In developing my criterion, I will focus on models that propose an explanation of some phenomenon. Following Maudlin, explanatory models are those that at least answer two questions—‘What is there?' and ‘How does it behave?' [2015: 64]. A model's answers to these questions tell us about its ontology and its dynamics, respectively. For example, dynamical models are paradigmatically explanatory, since they posit a phase space as well as an evolution rule describing the time evolution of points in that space. In other words, they describe the possible states of a system and provide laws governing the evolution of that system over time. Explanatory models are of interest here because they raise the kind of ontological questions that my account is meant to answer. When evaluating an explanatory model, we can ask whether it offers an accurate picture of what there is and how it behaves over and above its ability to predict certain variables in terms of others. For models that offer no such picture (like linear models), this question cannot arise.

### Compressibility and Similarity

One family of views proposes that model accuracy amounts to a kind of structural similarity between models and the target systems that they model (for example, Giere [1988], Godfrey-Smith [2006], and Weisberg [2016]). As it happens, there are deep connections between compressibility and similarity—just as there are deep connections between compressibility and regularity. The intuition here is fairly straightforward. Suppose that we want to quantify the similarity of two objects, A and B. One simple strategy would be to count the differences between A and B. While the basic approach seems sensible, the strategy itself is highly underspecified. How are differences individuated? How do we handle different degrees of difference?

Earlier, we considered the complexity of binary strings (section 2). Now we'll consider measures of similarity between binary strings. As it happens, there are multiple ways to formalize the notion of similarity between strings. To appreciate how such a formalization might go, consider the concept of edit distance—in particular, Levenshtein distance [Levenshtein 1966]. The Levenshtein distance between two strings is the minimum number of single character edits (insertion, deletion, and substitution) required to convert one string into another. Consider the following strings: 01111111111111111111110000000000000000000

The Levenshtein distance between A and B is 19, since nineteen substitutions must be made. However, what is the rationale for limiting ourselves to single character edits? If these strings continued in the same fashion for hundreds of bits, it might become more