desiderata (preserving multiple realizability and explaining scientific scepticism about model instantiation).

The paper is organized as follows: In section 2, I review real patterns as proposed by Dennett [1991], and I explain and defend the concern that real patterns courts instrumentalism. In section 3, I propose a novel criterion of pattern instantiation, motivated by information-theoretic criteria of similarity and by recent philosophical work on physical computation and scientific modelling. In section 4, I respond to the concerns of a contemporary defender of real patterns [D. Wallace 2012], and I suggest a strategy for deploying this criterion as a highly general tool for assessing scientific models. Finally, in section 5, I briefly review the proposed criterion and highlight directions for future research.

## Real Patterns

In data science, it is generally recognized that compression is achieved by exploiting regularities (or patterns) in data [C. Wallace 2005]. In algorithmic information theory, the number of bits required to encode a particular message is construed as the length of the shortest program (on a reference universal Turing machine) that halts with the message on the tape. This is known as the Kolmogorov complexity of the message [Sipser 2013]. A string of 10,000 bits chosen at random will probably require a program about as long as the string itself, since there is probably no pattern that a program could exploit in generating the string. In contrast, a string of 10,000 zeros could be represented by a short program that simply prints ‘0' 10,000 times [Li and Vitányi 2008]. Fortunately, the details of algorithmic information theory need not concern us here. Adverting to a formal criterion of complexity is primarily useful for focusing our attention on what such a criterion must deliver and for illustrating how a precisification of our ordinary notion of simplicity might proceed.

To understand how Dennett [1991] makes philosophical use of the connection between regularity and compression, it is worth revisiting one of his central examples—image compression. This case illustrates several of Dennett's key philosophical insights. The first is that the presence of a pattern in data is a matter of degree. Dennett considers a simple checkerboard image to which various amounts of random noise have been added. By conducting a simple experiment, one can see that the addition of random noise to an image increases the size of the image file when a compressed file format is used but not when an uncompressed format is used (see Fig. 1).

Moreover, the checkerboard pattern remains recognizable for some time, as more and more noise is added. The fact that the pattern is still present to some degree can be confirmed by comparing a noisy (but recognizable) checkerboard image to an image consisting entirely of random noise (again see Fig. 1). The former will require a smaller file, demonstrating that a pattern is present in the noisy checkerboard image. Of course, if we continue adding random noise to the checkerboard image, its file size will increase gradually until the pattern is effaced.