economical to use instructions like this: go to digit 2; loop n times: substitute 0; and move right. Compare that to this one: go to digit 2; substitute 0; go to digit 3; substitute 0 ... ; and so on. A more limited set of allowed operations makes sense when, say, one is trying to guess intended words from misspelled words. Spelling errors are often the result of single character errors, like substituting a wrong letter, omitting a correct letter, or adding an incorrect letter [Wagner and Fischer 1974].

However, what if we want a domain general measure of similarity? Algorithmic information distance is just such a measure. The algorithmic information distance between two strings is the length of the shortest program on a reference universal Turing machine that generates one string, given another, and vice versa [Bennett et al. 1998]. What algorithmic information distance and edit distance have in common is that they rely on the complexity of a specific procedure in order to establish similarity. However, by appealing to the computationally complete capacities of a universal Turing machine rather than a limited set of edit operations, algorithmic information distance provides a highly general measure of similarity [ibid.].

The key point is that a program for recovering A from B and vice versa must contain just enough bits to reproduce those elements of A that B lacks (and vice versa). Thus, the shortest possible program that maps A to B and B to A will contain only as many bits as are required to encode the differences between the strings. In this sense, algorithmic information distance measures the degree of similarity between A and B, with shorter programs indicating greater similarity.

### A Compressibility Criterion for Pattern Instantiation

As I mentioned earlier, one way to think about model accuracy is as a kind of structural similarity between a model and the world. For present purposes, I will assume this view of model accuracy and offer a similarity criterion for pattern instantiation. This criterion construes pattern instantiation as a relation between an instantiated model and an instantiating system. The pattern described by an explanatory model is its account of a system's behaviour defined over a particular representation of that system (such as the rule-governed evolution of points in a phase space). This pattern is well-instantiated to the extent that the model is well-instantiated. A model is well-instantiated to the extent that it bears the correct relation to the instantiating system—structural similarity.

In formalizing this criterion, I will assume that we are interested in determining whether a model is well-instantiated by a physical system as described by an accurate fundamental physical model. With minor modifications, however, the criterion will allow us to determine whether a high-level model is well-instantiated by a physical system as described by an accurate intermediate-level model. For simplicity, I will also assume that both of the relevant models are dynamical systems models.

When we think about model accuracy as a kind of similarity between models, we are presumably interested in the similarity of their ontology and dynamics. In the case of dynamical systems models, this means that we are interested in assessing what each model says about (i) the states that a system can be in (the phase space of the