all of the work of someone without such access in order to ascribe beliefs to the blockhead. Actual humans, of course, will not afford as simple a mapping as the idealized case, but the extreme practical difficulties of realizing a blockhead suggest that no actual system would have anything like its ‘cognitive' architecture. With that said, this is not the place to settle questions about the status or realization of actual human beliefs, but I think we have every reason to suspect that humans will be decidedly closer to the idealized case than they are to the blockhead—even if they ultimately fail to satisfy the exacting standards of ‘industrial strength' realists [Dennett 1991: 30].

## The Varieties of Instantiation

As framed above, the simplicity constraint considers a mapping between the phase spaces of two dynamical systems models—one representing our target physical system and one being our proposed model of that system. Of course, there are other kinds of models that we might like to evaluate (for example, an intentional systems model), and it would be worth clarifying how the criterion might be applied to a wider range of scientific models and explanatory projects. Fully extending the criterion to different types of models merits a separate discussion, but the basic recipe for carrying out this extension seems clear.

Since explanatory models tell us what there is and how it behaves, a natural way to extend the criterion is to require mappings that involve the ontologies of the instantiating and instantiated models (the ‘what' in ‘What is there?' and the ‘it' in ‘How does it behave?') [Maudlin 2015: 64]. For an intentional systems model, this is a set of beliefs and desires. For dynamical systems, this is a space of possible states. The same is true for standard Markov models. For n^{th}-order Markov models, this is state histories of length n. For agent-based models, this is a set of states for agents. Hence, if we wanted to see how well a dynamical system realizes an agent-based model, we might require a mapping from states of the dynamical system to states of the relevant agents under which the states of those agents evolve over time according to the rules of the agent-based model. This flexible approach allows us to target the posits that figure in the evolution rule of a model—whatever those posits might be.

With that said, D. Wallace [2012] offers compelling reasons to think that we are often interested in assessing models more abstractly. Even the notion of ‘structural similarity' (discussed above) does not specify at which level of abstraction similarity should be assessed. For example, when asking whether a physical system instantiates a computer, we might actually want to know how the physical states of a machine correspond to the computational states of a computer. However, in assessing whether a physical system realizes an economic model, our standards may differ. Such a model might accurately predict economic trends, even if it proposes idealized agents that have no direct correspondence (either numerically or qualitatively) with agents in the world. In light of cases like these, Wallace argues that we should assess model instantiation at the level of histories.

More specifically, Wallace's criterion requires a mapping from histories in the target system to histories in the model [ibid.: 54]. This criterion raises the same instrumentalist worries as Dennett's because it does not say which features of these histories should form the basis of our mapping. For example, the low-level histories of a computer will include details relevant to both (i) the input/output behaviour of an algorithm and (ii) the internal state transitions that accomplish this behaviour. However,